Updated plugin documentation (Akeneo, JSON-LD, Spreadsheet, SQL, Sylius) (#16)
php-etl/documentation: content/connectivity/akeneo/plugin.en.md

[Pipeline](https://github.com/php-etl/pipeline) stack. This integration is
compatible with both [Akeneo Enterprise Edition client](https://github.com/akeneo/api-php-client-ee)
and the [Akeneo Community Edition client](https://github.com/akeneo/api-php-client).

## Installation

```shell
composer require php-etl/akeneo-plugin
```

## Usage

### Connecting to Akeneo

To establish a connection to your Akeneo PIM, you must specify its URL and some connection identifiers
(`client_id`, `secret`, `username`, `password`).

```yaml
akeneo:
  # ...
  client:
    api_url: 'http://demo.akeneo.com'
    client_id: '414yc7d9mnk044ko4wswgw80o8ssw80gssos488kk8ogss40ko'
    secret: '4k8ee6n44m4gkkg0coc8o4w4coscw0w4cg0wg8sc0wsk0sw8gs'
    username: 'demo_9573'
    password: '516f3e3e5'
```

To retrieve these identifiers, you need to add a
[connection](https://help.akeneo.com/pim/v4/updates/connections.html) in your Akeneo PIM.

### Using a logger

The `logger` option has been set up so that you can use a logger directly in the Pipeline.
When using this option, you must specify the type of logger.

```yaml
akeneo:
  # ...
  logger:

>     type: stderr

Reviewer: Ce format de logger est deprecated, il faudrait faire un renvoi vers une doc dédiée des loggers

Author: j'ai ajouté la documentation du nouveau format de logger

```

### Using the enterprise version

> The `enterprise` option allows you to use the enterprise version. By default, it's set to false.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `enterprise` option allows you to use the enterprise features in Akeneo and uses the Enterprise client accordingly. By default, it's set to `false`.
```

```yaml
akeneo:
  enterprise: true
  # ...
```

### Building an extractor

> In the configuration of your extractor, you must specify the type of table you will be working on

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the configuration of your extractor, you must specify the type of resource you will be working on
```

and which method you want to use to retrieve your data.

> The list of available tables is quite long and depends on the version of your Akeneo (enterprise or community).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The list of available resources is quite long depend on the edition of your Akeneo (Enterprise, Growth or Community).
```

> For a community version, you can choose between several types of tables : `product`, `category`, `attribute`,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For a Community Edition or Growth Edition, you can choose between this types of resources : `product`, `category`, `attribute`,
```

`attributeOption`, `attributeGroup`, `family`, `productMediaFile`, `locale`, `channel`, `currency`, `measureFamily`,
`associationType`, `familyVariant`, `productModel`.

> For an enterprise version, you will have in addition to the types present in the community version :

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For an Enterprise Edition, you will be able to use in addition to the resources present in the Community Edition :
```

`publishedProduct`, `productModelDraft`, `productDraft`, `asset`, `assetCategory`, `assetTag`, `referenceEntityRecord`,
`referenceEntityAttribute`, `referenceEntityAttributeOption`, `referenceEntity`.

> For each table, the following 3 methods are available :

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For each resource, the following 3 methods are available :
```

- `all` : retrieves all data from a table
- `get` : retrieve a row from a table
- `listPerPage` : retrieves a set number of data from a table

```yaml
akeneo:
  extractor:
    type: product
    method: all
  logger:
    type: stderr
  client:
    api_url: 'http://demo.akeneo.com/'
    client_id: '414yc7d9mnk044ko4wswgw80o8ssw80gssos488kk8ogss40ko'
    secret: '4k8ee6n44m4gkkg0coc8o4w4coscw0w4cg0wg8sc0wsk0sw8gs'
    username: 'demo_9573'
    password: '516f3e3e5'
```

### Building a lookup

> In some cases, you will need to perform lookups by joining data from input columns to columns in a reference dataset;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In some cases, you will need to perform some lookups to append to the data already read some complementary data coming from a secondary data source;
```

this is called a lookup.

In the configuration of your lookup, you must specify the type of table you will be working on

> and which method you want to use to retrieve your data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the configuration of your lookup, you must specify the type of resource you will be working on
and which method you want to use to retrieve your data.
```

The list of available tables is quite long and depends on the version of your Akeneo (enterprise or community).

> The options available are the same as for the [loader](#building-a-loader).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The list of available resources is quite long and depends on the edition of your Akeneo (Enterprise, Growth or Community).
The options available are the same as for the [loader](#building-a-loader).
```

> The `merge` option allows you to add data to your dataset, in a sense merging your actual dataset with your new data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `merge` option allows you to add data to your dataset, in a sense merging your actual dataset with your new data.
```

The `map` option comes from the [FastMap](../../../connectivity/fast-map) plugin, feel free to read its documentation

> to understand how to use it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `map` option comes from the [FastMap](../../../connectivity/fast-map) plugin, you may need to read its documentation
to understand how to use it properly.
```

```yaml
akeneo:
  lookup:
    type: product
    method: all
    merge:
      map:
        - field: '[options]'
          expression: 'lookup["code"]'
  client:
    api_url: 'http://demo.akeneo.com/'
    client_id: '414yc7d9mnk044ko4wswgw80o8ssw80gssos488kk8ogss40ko'
    secret: '4k8ee6n44m4gkkg0coc8o4w4coscw0w4cg0wg8sc0wsk0sw8gs'
    username: 'demo_9573'
    password: '516f3e3e5'
```

> ### Building a ConditionalLookup

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Building a conditional lookup
```

The conditional lookup is a lookup that takes conditions into account. Your lookup will be executed when each

> condition is met.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The conditional lookup is very similar to a regular lookup, at the difference that the lookup will be performed only if some conditions
are full-filled.
```

About its configuration, you will find the same options as for the classic lookup, except that there is an additional

> `condition` option.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this configuration, you will find options very similar to a standard lookup, difference being on 2 new levels of encapsulation, one of them containing the condition.
```

```yaml
akeneo:
  lookup:
    conditional:

>       - condition: '@=(input["type"] in ["pim_catalog_simpleselect", "pim_catalog_multipleselect"])'
>         type: attributeOption
>         code: '@=input["code"]'
>         method: listPerPage
>         search:
>           - { field: enabled, operator: '=', value: '@=input["code"]', scope: '@=input["code"]', locale: '@=input["fr_FR"]' }
>         merge:
>           map:
>             - field: '[options]'
>               expression: 'join("|", lookup["code"])'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      - condition: '@=(input["type"] in ["pim_catalog_simpleselect", "pim_catalog_multipleselect"])'
        type: attributeOption
        code: '@=input["code"]'
        method: listPerPage
        search:
          - { field: enabled, operator: '=', value: '@=input["code"]', scope: '@=input["code"]', locale: '@=input["fr_FR"]' }
        merge:
          map:
            - field: '[options]'
              expression: 'join("|", lookup["code"])'
      - condition: '@=(input["type"] in ["akeneo_reference_entity", "akeneo_reference_entity_collection"])'
        type: referenceEntityRecord
        code: '@=input["code"]'
        method: listPerPage
        search:
          - { field: enabled, operator: '=', value: '@=input["code"]', scope: '@=input["code"]', locale: '@=input["fr_FR"]' }
        merge:
          map:
            - field: '[options]'
              expression: 'join("|", lookup["code"])'
```

  # ...
```

### Building a loader

In the configuration of your extractor, you must specify the type of table you are going to work on

> and which method you want to use to insert your data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the configuration of your loader, you must specify the type of resource you are going to write
and which method you want to use to insert your data.
```

> The list of available tables is quite long et dépend de la version de votre Akeneo (enterprise ou community).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The list of available resources is quite long and dépends on your Akeneo edition (Enterprise, Growth or Community).
```

For a community version, you can choose between several types of tables: `product`, `category`, `attribute`,
`attributeOption`, `attributeGroup`, `family`, `productMediaFile`, `locale`, `channel`, `currency`, `measureFamily`,

> `associationType`, `familyVariant`, `productModel`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For a Community Edition or Growth Edition, you can choose between these types of resources: `product`, `category`, `attribute`,
`attributeOption`, `attributeGroup`, `family`, `productMediaFile`, `locale`, `channel`, `currency`, `measureFamily`,
`associationType`, `familyVariant`, `productModel`.
```

For an enterprise version, you will have in addition to the types present in the community version : `publishedProduct`,
`productModelDraft`, `productDraft`, `asset`, `assetCategory`, `assetTag`, `referenceEntityRecord`, `referenceEntityAttribute`,

> `referenceEntityAttributeOption`, `referenceEntity`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For an Enterprise Edition, you will be able to use in addition to the resources present in the Community Edition:
`publishedProduct`,
`productModelDraft`, `productDraft`, `asset`, `assetCategory`, `assetTag`, `referenceEntityRecord`, `referenceEntityAttribute`,
`referenceEntityAttributeOption`, `referenceEntity`.
```

> For each table, the following 4 methods are available :

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For each resource, the following 4 methods are available :
```

> - `create` : insert a row into the table
> - `upsert` : insert or update (if it already exists) a row into the table
> - `upsertList` : insert or update a list of data
> - `delete` : delete a row from the table

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `create`: insert a new resource
- `upsert`: will try to update the resource, otherwise the resource will be created
- `upsertList`: will try to update a resources list, otherwise the resources will be created
- `delete`: delete a resource from the table
```

```yaml
akeneo:
  loader:
    type: products
    method: create
  logger:
    type: stderr
  client:
    api_url: 'http://demo.akeneo.com/'
    client_id: '414yc7d9mnk044ko4wswgw80o8ssw80gssos488kk8ogss40ko'
    secret: '4k8ee6n44m4gkkg0coc8o4w4coscw0w4cg0wg8sc0wsk0sw8gs'
    username: 'demo_9573'
    password: '516f3e3e5'
```

## Advanced Usage

### Filtering your search

In some cases, you may only want to retrieve data that matches specific criteria.

When performing a search, you need to specify certain options :

- `field` : the field you want to search
- `operator` : the operator of your search
- `value` : the value of the field you want to search

Other options are available but are not essential in your search :

- `scope` : scope in which you search
- `locale` : code of the locale you are looking for

```yaml
akeneo:
  extractor:
    # ...
    search:
      - { field: enabled, operator: '=', value: true }
      - { field: completeness, operator: '>', value: 70, scope: ecommerce }
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

You may need to read the [filtering documentation of Akeneo API](https://api.akeneo.com/documentation/filter.html)
```
